PANDA CHALLENGE ANALYSIS

This challenge asks us to act as the Chief Data Scientist for the local city's school district in order to help the school board and the mayor make strategic decisions regarding future school budgets and priorities. The first thing we had to accomplish was to properly analyze district wide standardized test results, focusing on math and reading scores. Taking into account various factors such as type of school and size of school.
One of the first things that we notice, when reviewing the data, is that Charter schools beat district public schools in almost all categories. In fact; the top five schools in math, reading and overall scores we all charter schools. Conversely, the bottom five performing schools in math, reading and overall scores were all public schools.
Now, can we attribute these scores and the difference in school type to budgetary differences? The short answer is no. While all five top performing schools are charter schools, only one of them is in the top five for highest school budgets. Indeed, the second best performing school, Thomas High School, a charter school has the smallest school budget in the district. If we dig deeper into the budgets in each individual school and break each budget down per student we find that only two of the best performing schools were in the top five for per student budgets. Also, one school with the third highest per student budget is ranked as the second worst school in student performance. In fact, overall, we see that scores were higher with a lower budget than vice versa as you might assume.  All this allows us to understand that high budgets alone do not denote automatic success for a student or a school. 
If we start to break the schools down by grade we do see some variation in grade averages in math and reading but nothing that points to any one grade lagging too far behind the other grades in the school. Overall in the district math scores were lower than reading scores.
So, if higher budgets don’t help bring grades up, what other factors could contribute to more successful students and schools? Perhaps school size, or school type would be better indicators of more success? 
School size certainly matters, more resources for less students can have a huge impact on the success rates. The data tells us that once a school in the district exceeds two thousand students the overall performance and success rates decline, however there is only a marginal difference between schools under one thousand students and schools with between one thousand and two thousand students.
As far as type of school within the district, we see in the data a clear difference in success rates as well as scores. We have already stated tat all five top performing schools in the district were charter schools, which on average had smaller student bodies and higher budgets. While the vast majority of charter students passed their math and reading tests, only slightly above half of the public school students had an overall passing grade on the tests.

CONCLUSION:
     Higher budgets are helpful in schools where there are less than two thousand students, therefore keeping the overall size of the student body, as well as the class sizes, does impact success rates in math and reading.
     Overall conclusions are that public schools lag behind charter schools in math and reading test scores due to a number of factors including, the size of schools and the amount of the budget spent per student. The best solution for this would be to create new schools to lower overall class sizes while maintaining the current budget levels. Within all schools in the district there should be a focus on teaching math early and often as the student body shows a general aptitude for reading but struggles with math. The overall goal should be to create smaller classes, with high per student average budgets, to help students focus better and make better use of the school resources they receive. 


